.TH IAC 1 "April 26, 2007" "PolyORB team" "PolyORB documentation"

.SH NAME
iac \- PolyORB's IDL-to-Ada compiler

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iac opts file [-cppargs args]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIiac\fP is an IDL-to-Ada compiler, compliant with version 1.2 of the "Ada Language Mapping Specification" produced by the OMG.

.SH OPTIONS
.l
\fIiac\fP accepts the following options:

.TP 8
.B  \-E
Preprocess only.
.B  \-k
Keep temporary files.
.TP 8
.B  \-p
Produce source on standard output.
.TP 8
.B \-o DIR
Specify output directory.
.TP 8
.B \-dm      
Generate debug messages when analyzing scopes
.TP 8
.B \-df
Dump the frontend tree (the IDL tree)
.TP 8
.B \-cppargs ARGS
Pass ARGS to the C++ preprocessor.
.TP 8
.B \-I dir
Shortcut for -cppargs -I dir.
.TP 8
.B \-<lang>  
Generate code for a supported language
.TP 8
.B types   
Generate a list of all types present in the IDL file
.TP 8
\&\fB \-p       
Print the list generate
.TP 8
.B ada 
Generate Ada source code
.TP 8
\&\fB \-i
Generate implementation template.
.TP 8
\&\fB \-c
Generate client side code.
.TP 8
\&\fB \-s
Generate server side code.
.TP 8
\&\fB \-d
Generate delegation package. (defunct)
.TP 8
\&\fB \-ir
Generate code for interface repository.(defunct)
.TP 8
\&\fB \-noir
Don't generate code for interface repository (default).
.TP 8
\&\fB \-hc      
Using perfect minimal hash tables in skeletons
and minimize CPU time
.TP 8
\&\fB \-hm      
Using perfect minimal hash tables in skeletons
and minimize memory space
.TP 8
\&\fB \-rs      
Use the SII/SSI to handle requests
.TP 8
\&\fB \-rd      
Use the DII/DSI to handle requests (default)
.TP 8
\&\fB \-da      
Dump the Ada tree
.TP 8
\&\fB \-db      
Generate only the package bodies
.TP 8
\&\fB \-ds      
Generate only the package specs
.TP 8
\&\fB \-dw      
Output the withed entities
.TP 8
\&\fB \-dt      
Output tree warnings
.TP 8
\&\fB \-di      
Generate code for imported entities
.TP 8
.B idl
Dump parsed IDL file
.TP 8
\&\fB \-b n     
Base to output integer literal
As a default (zero) use base from input
.TP 8
\&\fB \-e       
Expand IDL Tree
.TP 8
\&\fB \-df      
Dump IDL Tree (may be used in conjunction with -e
to dump the expanded IDL tree)
.TP 8
\&\fB \-di      
Output IDL code of imported entities (may be used in conjunction with
-e to output the expanded IDL code)

.SH EXIT STATUS
\fIiac\fP returns one of the following values upon exit:
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion
.TP
.B 1
Usage error
.TP
.B 2
Illegal IDL specification


.SH AUTHORS
The \fIPolyORB\fP team, polyorb-devel@lists.adacore.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
The \fIPolyORB\fP WWW page,
.B
http://libre.adacore.com/polyorb/
.b
