.TH POLYORB-CONFIG 1 "July 13, 2004" "PolyORB team" "PolyORB documentation"

.SH NAME
polyorb-config - script to get information about the installed version of PolyORB.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B polyorb-config [--prefix[=DIR]] [--exec-prefix[=DIR]] [--version|-v] [--config] [--libs] [--cflags] [--idls] [--help]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpolyorb-config\fP is a tool that is used to determine the compiler and linker flags that should be used to compile and link programs that use \fIPolyORB\fP.

.SH OPTIONS
.l
\fIpolyorb-config\fP accepts the following options:

.TP 8
.B  \-\-prefix[=DIR]
 Output the directory in which PolyORB architecture-independent files
are installed, or set this directory to DIR.

.TP 8
.B  \-\-exec\-prefix[=DIR]
 Output the directory in which PolyORB architecture-dependent files are installed, or set this directory to DIR.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-version
Print the currently installed version of \fIPolyORB\fP on the standard output.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-config
Print the configuration of the currently installed version of
\fIPolyORB\fP on the standard output.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-libs
Print the linker flags that are necessary to link a \fIPolyORB\fP program.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-cflags
Print the compiler flags that are necessary to compile a \fIPolyORB\fP
program.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-idls
Print the flags to set up path to CORBA's IDL for idlac.
.TP 8
.B \-\-with-appli-perso=P,P,P
Restrict output to only those flags relevant to the listed applicative personalities.
.TP 8
.B \-\-with-proto-perso=P,P,P
Restrict output to only those flags relevant to the listed protocol personalities.
.TP 8
.B \-\-with-corba-services=S,S,S
Restrict output to only those flags relevant to the listed services.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-help
Print help message.

.SH AUTHORS
The \fIPolyORB\fP team, polyorb-devel@lists.adacore.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
The \fIPolyORB\fP WWW page,
.B
http://libre.adacore.com/polyorb/
.b
